in order to take a basic picture with
this camera first thing you need to know
and you probably already know this but
I'm going to go over it anyway hold the
camera properly this can be a very heavy
camera and you need to support it very
very well so with your left hand cup the
lens from underneath this way you can
turn the zoom and the focus if you need
to you also have your thumb free to
press the flash button and the depth of
field button so underneath the lens will
give you access to all these different
features as well as supporting the
camera from below you don't want to hold
it like this this is no good for support
and this is very good for support so
hold it like this back here your thumb
can press on all these different buttons
if you need to and your index finger
will control the shutter release this
dial to change your aperture setting or
shutter setting or both and you can
click the ISO button if you need to
change that now just about anything you
need to change for example shutter
aperture ISO you can keep looking
through the viewfinder and do all that
without even looking at the screen in
the back so if you know the camera well
enough you can just press the ISO while
you're looking through the button and
then move up and down you can see that
figure change in the viewfinder at the
bottom so that's how you hold the camera
now in order to take your basic picture
you want to use the program mode so your
mode dial should be on P I'm going to
assume we're outdoors so I'd like to
have the ISO set to 100 we're in broad
daylight so I really don't need the
camera to be any more sensitive than
that so I'll press ISO use my up and
down navigation buttons to get to 100
and then press set my white balance
should be set to daylight press white
balance right here and move this over to
daylight during the shade you can set it
to Shady
if it's cloudy you can set it to cloudy
these will warm up the image a little
bit to compensate for the cool colors in
the shade go ahead and press set one
shot is fine I don't need the camera to
continuously focus so I'm not going to
set that my metering mode is here it's
set to evaluative this is also fine and
my drive mode is set to single-shot
which is good this means I press the
button and it will just take one picture
now you can see most of this information
when you look through the viewfinder at
the bottom in green so basically just go
ahead and look through the viewfinder
zoom in in order to compose the image
remember you have your focusing square
set to the center focusing point Center
that focusing point on your subject
press the shutter button halfway the
camera will flash a red dot in the
center focusing point so you'll know
that the camera is locked focus and then
you can move the camera slightly to
recompose the image while the shutter
button is pressed halfway maintaining
that focus on your subject and then when
the composition is the way you like it
just go ahead and press the shutter
button the rest of the way to take the
picture if you need to use the flash in
order to eliminate some shadows go ahead
and press the flash button right here
since we're in the program mode remember
that the flash is not automated this is
either on or off
now that the flash is up it will fire
it's not going to guess whether you want
it to fire or not it assumes you know
what you want and the camera will use
the flash and the same as before compose
the image move that Center focusing
Square to the subject press the shutter
button halfway you'll see the red dot in
the center you'll hear the double beep
keep pressing the button halfway
recompose the image and press the
shutter button the rest of the way to
take the picture
to find out much more about digital
photography and your digital camera go
to lb guides calm